Thought's on why morality is useless in understanding the self. I will organize my thoughts with references to works that inspired them.

Works of love - Soren Kierkigard:

Soren Kierkigard was a danish theologian/christian existentialist philosopher who promotes the love of Christ (non preferential love). Non preferential love is the loving of all people, concepts, creations, whether or not they actually "deserve it". Everyone and everything deserves compassion, even evil people and the worst parts of yourself. Otherwise this evil will fester, and manifest in physical reality (You become what you despise and are unaware of it / tyrants such as Hitler rise to power). This radical acceptance of all of god's creation (which includes evil) is our only path to salvation and peace. It is what allows us to forgive those who sin, including ourselves, as opposed to harsh punishment and judgment which only allows evil to work more efficiently in the shadows of our minds, and society. This judgment, and preferential love - only loving things that deserve love, is the source of self hatred, suffering, and evil, and stems from subjective morality, or societal conditioning in our formative years. Morality and judgment are worthless when it comes to accepting yourself, and god's creation. Fighting hate with hate will never be successful.

Meditations - Marcus Aurelius:

Meditations is a 2000 year old work of stoic philosophy written by the greatest emperor to ever rule Rome. Stoic philosophy teaches us to love our fate, love our obstacles, accept evil such as sickness, death, and humanity's imperfection. Understanding that evil and suffering is necessary for the existence of virtue and happiness is crucial in actualizing virtue (compassion, justice, wisdom, temperance). It is unfair to judge another human being, as they do not understand their evil and have lost their way. This includes not judging yourself, and treating your psyche with compassion, in order to find out what you really are, and turn it into a force for good. The logos subsists within all things, and is an interconnected web necessary for all being (Gods will/Plan).

Frederich Nietzsche - Also spruch Zarathusra:

Frederick Nietzsche is known for killing god, and the destroying objective morality. This is necessary in order to find out who you are. Rejecting divine law allows us to find out who we are, and what our purpose on this earth is. My interpretation is a bit oxymoron, as I still believe our purpose is to serve God. The only way to do this is to love all aspects of life, and accept and forgive those who have done wrong (others/our selves). This can only be done by rejecting morality and our judgments of God's creation (other people, evil, suffering, ourselves). Otherwise, people will use "morality" for evil. Nietzsche was successful in predicting the rise of fascism, and personalities such as Hitler. Intolerance can not be met with more intolerance. Reject judgment and find meaning and yourself. Otherwise you will succumb to nihilism, and so will society. Giving people such as Hitler a platform and canvas to commit extreme acts of evil.

Any writings of Carl Jung:

Carl Jung was a Swiss psychologist, philosopher, and theologian who established the basis of modern psychology and interpretations of the entire corpus of religious mythology and symbolism. In a nutshell, the ego (your conscious awareness, what you think of yourself, your opinions, your interpretation of the world) must meet the shadow (subconscious), and integrate it into conscious awareness. Our subconscious is where we repress concepts that our ego deems unacceptable, due to societal conditioning and morality. This evil will fester within your mind, as it is not being discarded, only placed somewhere outside of your awareness. This will give rise to maladaptive behaviors in the physical world, outside of your awareness. You must confront your shadow with love and radical acceptance, otherwise you will become what you despise, and not truly know who you are. Integration of the conscious and unconscious is reffered to as individuation, the union of opposites. This allows us to channel "evil" qualities into positive change in the world (being assertive, being able to protect the weak with violence, using anger as a motivation to induce positive change in the world) Trying to be perfect is an impossible feat that only Gods can manage (christ). The ego's role is to make us perfect, by repressing our worst potentialities. We are made within god's image, and must allow the love of christ to flow out ourselves and accept those who are in the wrong, as they have lost their way. This includes the self. Once one has integrated all aspects of the psyche, they are considered whole, and a reflection of god. "I would rather be whole than good"

Hermetic Philosophy and alchemical practices:

Hermeticism is a dive into the dualistic nature of reality. The macrocosm mirrors the microcosm. Atoms are structured like stars, a tree's branches split at the same ratio as our veins, and the human is a reflection of god (we are made in his image). It is the philosophy of unionizing opposites, to reach a state of gnosis (wholeness). This gnosis is the source of all essence. Reality is a sum of opposites (good and evil, tall and short, hot and cold.) Nothing would exist without contrast. Darkness cannot exist without light, as darkness is an absence of light. Alchemy is the practical work of hermetic philosophy. The goal of the alchemist is to turn lead into gold. Lead symbolizes base matter, something useless and ugly and considered toxic (excrement, waste, sewage). Gold is a symbolic representation of goodness and purity. In summary, this means we must take all that is considered worthless and negative about ourselves, and transmute it into something that can be used as a force for good. This is realizing who we are, and experiencing a share of the divine that exists within all of us (God, the ultimate source of all opposites).

Sun Tzu - The art of war:

Knowing your enemy and yourself is crucial in winning a battle. You cannot defend against an adversary unless you examine your own posture, and weaknesses/strengths (observing your shadow). Nobody likes the evil and weakness inside of them, but without knowing of it and experiencing it, you will ultimately loose in this war we are all entrenched in - life. You must also understand the enemy (evil), and learn how to use the enemies strengths and weaknesses against them. A practical example of this is offensive security testing. Emulating the adversary, understanding their methodology, and implementing their thought process into our own work is crucial at protecting ourselves from malign intentions hackers all over the world wish to actualize (harming us and our clients). We must learn their evil ways and understand it, and turn it into a force for good. Through this, we learn more about ourselves.

Jordan Peterson:

Without repeating myself to much, Jordan Peterson is an individual who gives fantastic lectures on Jungian Psychology, Theology, Philosophy. He is an absolute gem of a person and I owe a lot of my personal development to this man.


